+++
title = "Mutual Information Preserving Back-propagation Learn to Invert for Faithful Attribution"
date = 2021-06-05T00:00:03
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Huiqi Deng", "Na Zou", "Weifu Chen", "Guocan Feng", "Mengnan Du", "Xia Hu"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining"
publication_short = "KDD 2021"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Back propagation based visualizations have been proposed to interpret deep neural networks (DNNs), some of which produce interpretations with good visual quality. However, there exist doubts about whether these intuitive visualizations are related to the network decisions. Recent studies have confirmed this suspicion by verifying that almost all these modified back-propagation visualizations are not faithful to the model's decision-making process. Besides, these visualizations produce vague "relative importance scores", among which low values can't guarantee to be independent of the final prediction. Hence, it's highly desirable to develop a novel back-propagation framework that guarantees theoretical faithfulness and produces a quantitative attribution score with a clear understanding. To achieve the goal, we resort to mutual information theory to generate the interpretations, studying how much information of output is encoded in each input neuron. The basic idea is to learn a source signal by back-propagation such that the mutual information between input and output should be as much as possible preserved in the mutual information between input and the source signal. In addition, we propose a Mutual Information Preserving Inverse Network, termed MIP-IN, in which the parameters of each layer are recursively trained to learn how to invert. During the inversion, forward Relu operation is adopted to adapt the general interpretations to the specific input. We then empirically demonstrate that the inverted source signal satisfies completeness and minimality property, which are crucial for a faithful interpretation. Furthermore, the empirical study validates the effectiveness of interpretations generated by MIP-IN."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2104.06629.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
